The reason that we use public key authentication over passwords is security, public key authentication
provides cryptographic strength that even extremely long passwords cannot offer with each public key
authentication improve security considerably as it frees users from having to remember complicated passwords.
In addition to the obvious security benefits, it allows users to implement single sign on across multiple
servers.
That means that the same Kippy can be used for multiple servers.
The slide is in red areas of the SSA.
Keep is generated locally.
What do I mean by the word locally?
Locally is the PC or the Mac that you are sitting looking at and working on?
Not the server.
The server is remote.
You generate the key here locally on your PC or Mac.
You do not generate to keep it on the server.
This is a key.
Authentication is relatively straightforward to implement the users generate to keep themselves.
The public key is copied to the server and the private key remains with the user on their PC or Mac
keys come in pairs, a public key and a private key.
Each key is unique.
The keys work together.
One last time I'm going to repeat this.
The key is generated locally on your PC or Mac.
You do not generate the keep it on the server.
Let's look at how is such key authentication works.
When using a password, you would initiate the connection and provide the password when prompted.
If the password is correct, you authenticated and granted access with SSL key authentication.
Firstly, you initiate an essential connection to the server.
The server then replies to you by sending a random message back to the client using the private key
which is stored on your PC or Mac.
The client encrypts the random message and sends it back to the server on the server.
The encrypted message is then decrypted using the public key.
Now, if the messages match, the client is authenticated and access is granted to the server.
Now we need to set up a key authentication.
Your first step, you generate the keep it on your PC or Mac.
Once you've generated to keep you copy the public key to your server, then you log into your server
and you configure the server to use SSL key authentication.
At the moment, our server is using password authentication.
So what we need to do then is log in to the server, disable password authentication and enable key
authentication.
We then need to log in using key authentication.
We need to do that to ensure we can log in using this key authentication.
And finally, we need to create a conflict file.
I'm not going to go into any detail at this stage about a config file.
When we get to the conflict file, you will see why we need to use a config file.
Look at the prompt on the screen.
Andrew, that was the user that I added to my server at Ubuntu twenty 04.
That was the hostname I gave my server when I created it, told Dollar.
By looking at that, you should be able to tell that I am logged in to my server.
I need to generate the H keep that are not generated on the server exit connection to my IP address
closed log out of your server.
I'm going to topolice dot ss h slash locally on my PC or Mac typing less.
S.H. Slash will display the contents of the directory.
Currently there is one file called known hosts.
I'm going to type neno dot S.H. Slash followed by the filename known hosts.
There is the server fingerprint for my server.
If I need to remove a server fingerprint from the known host file, ensure your cursor is at the beginning
of the line.
Control key will remove that entire line.
I'm going to control X save modified buffer.
No, that is how you can remove the server fingerprint from the known hosts file.
I'm going to topolice dot ss h slash.
Now I'm going to generate my keep the commander's ss h hyphen kaige in the space.
Two flags that I need to specify.
I need to specify the type of key I t the type of key is always a Niva space and they need to specify
the number of bits of and B four zero nine six and press enter into file in which to save the key you
need to type A period s h slash that will specify the local path to the directory that we want to save
the keeper to.
After the slash you need to specify a filename.
I'll call Marketo 20 zero four enter passphrase.
This is not your password on the.
Server, this is a passphrase that protects the private key from unauthorized usage.
Let's say your PC, your Mac is stolen.
Anyone can use that key and log into your server.
If the key is protected with a passphrase, they will not be able to.
You need to type the same passphrase again for the purposes of the course.
The key fingerprint and the random auto you can ignore your ID has been saved in dot ss slash you 20
zero for your public key has been saved in that SS age.
Slash you 20 zero for dot pab.
I must mention, if you cannot remember the passphrase, there is no way to recover a lost passphrase.
I'm going to press my Baraki to list the contents of the DOT SS directory.
Now we have three files known hosts you 20 zero four.
That is my private key and you 20 zero four dot pop, which is my public key.
Now we need to copy the public key to the server.
The command is is CP secure.
Copy that is copy over SS H.
What do we want to copy.
You need to specify the filename.
Firstly the path dot ss h slash followed by the filename you 20 zero for pub the a space.
Where do we want to copy it to my users.
Andrew at my IP address kolon.
Where on the server do we want to copy it to.
You need to copy it to your user's home directory.
Slash home slash Andrew Jessep.
The path to the public key your service user at your service IP Holon slash home slash your server username.
You need to type your users password.
Our public, he has been copied to the server.
Now we need to log into the server, we need to log into the server and configure the server to use
key authentication services, each user at your servers IP address.
I'm going to type clear.
And then unless there is the public key that we copied to our server, this hyphen will display any
hidden files or directories, any file or directory that starts with a period or DOT is a hidden file
or directory.
We need to rename the public key.
The public key needs to be called authorized keys EMV.
M.V. is your move command.
It's also your rename command, followed by the file.
Name you 20 zero for the public space.
Now you type authorized underscore keys.
We have renamed you 20 zero four two authorized keys.
The authorized Keys file needs to be found in a directory called DOT SSL, which this is on the server.
The file authorized keys needs to be located in a directory called Dot ss h Alice hyphen a we do not
have a directory dot ss h mkdir.
We want to make a directory.
The name of the directory is not such a listing.
These are authorized keys file.
On the right hand side we have.
This is such a wide listing with the L and a flex dot ss h.
Look on the extreme left it is a directory.
He authorized his file needs to be located in a directory DSH M.V. Only this time we are not renaming,
we are moving.
What are we moving?
Authorized keys?
We are we moving it to DSH listing displays are not in this directory, not the authorized keys file
because we moved it into DSH Khedive.
A space that is a and listing will display the authorized keys file.
A wide listing will allow us to view the permissions on the authorized keys file.
We need to lock down that authorized key file.
What I mean by lockdown is we need to change the permissions and the file attributes on that file.
That is an important file.
So we need to lock that file down so that only our user has access to that file.
There are two ways we do this.
The first step is to change the permissions on the authorized keys file.
The command is S.H. Mod.
What permissions do we want on that file?
We will allow user to read and write to that file.
Read and write is four plus two, which is six.
The group, no permissions.
Zero other users on the server, no exis zero, no permissions.
Niva Espace followed by the filename.
Look at the listing above are w are the authorized keys file have permissions of six for for after typing
about six hundred authorized keys.
Look at the permissions now.
Are w are w read write for the owner.
No permissions for the group, no permissions for the other user.
As this file is so important, we need to prevent this file from being deleted accidentally.
To do that we need to change the attributes of the file.
We need to set what is called an immutable but on the file.
Once you sit and immutable, but on a file, the file cannot be modified, deleted or renamed.
You need to use the chatter command S.H. a TTR to set an immutable but plus I leave a space followed
by the filename.
Changing file attributes is an administrative task.
The root user needs to execute that command.
I'm going to type the command as I have and press enter chatter operation not permitted while setting
flags on authorized keys.
The change attribute command is an administrative task.
My user needs to invoke route privileges to invoke route privileges.
My user needs to type sudo super user do prior to tapping the command.
So it would be sudo the space chata.
Plus I leave a space followed by the filename and enter.
Now I need to type the password for my user and the command was executed successfully.
Any time you need to invoke route privileges, use sudo prior to typing the command when exactly you
need to use to do.
As we progress through the course, you will learn when SUDA is required.
Now we need to go back one level.
I can use Khedive Espace double period.
I'm going to list the contents of the home directory with the hyphen L and Aflex.
We also need to lock down the dot is this directory.
Look at the permissions on the left.
Seven seven five rw x four to one.
That's seven or eight seven six five.
So that means the owner can read, write, execute in that directory.
The group read, write, execute.
Other users can read and execute.
Execute with reference to a directory means other users can change to that directory.
We don't want that.
Let's prevent anyone except the owner from having access to that directory.
Mod the owner read, write, execute for plus two plus one seven.
The group, no permissions, other users, no permissions.
So it's not 746 H slash listing with the hyphen L-A flags.
Look at the permissions now.
Read, write, execute followed by six hyphens only the user Andrew has access to that DSH directory.
Now we need to edit a configuration file.
The file we need to edit is SS HD underscore config.
We've already edited the file as the route user.
What do we need to do?
Turn off password authentication and allow access?
A key authentication code slash.
Where's the file located slash ATC Slash SS Edge and listing of the slash H directory.
There is the file is this underscore config as well as the backup file.
We don't need to create another backup file.
We already have a backup.
I'm going to list the contents of the ATC slash SS directory using the hyphen L flag.
Look at the file SS HD underscore config.
The file is owned by the Route User Group owned by the route group.
Look at the permissions.
The route user can read and write to that file.
The group can read, other users can read.
Who is your user in this case, your user is.
The other user, the other user can only read that file.
So if I typed Nenna, it's this underscore config file issus HD underscore config is untradable control
X.
Why is that?
And the other user, the other user only has read permissions on that file.
Previously, when we edited that file we were the route user.
Look at the permissions of the user.
The user can read and write to that file.
What do you think we need to do to allow our non-approved user to edit that file sudo sudo nenna followed
by the file that invoke route privileges.
So the command is Sudo Beevor space neno followed by the filename.
No warning now about the file being unreadable.
We need to scroll down to the section authentication.
There is permitted logging know that we changed earlier, public key authentication is commented, remove
the hash to uncommented, then we have a comment.
Authorized keys fall.
You can uncommented to the right of authorized keys file.
We have DSH slash authorized keys dot S.H. slash authorized keys to in front of the first period.
I want you to type in eight per cent h slash adding per cent which means it's this must check in the
user's home directory for a dot SS directory and then in that directory check for the authorized keys
file.
Then you need to scroll down until you find password authentication.
Password authentication.
It's commented you can remove the hash, change password authentication from yes to no.
You can close NENO control X save, modify, buffer Tapasvi filename to write this underscore config.
When you ed configuration file, you need to restart the service associated with that configuration
file.
When you restart services, it is the job of the root user.
You need to use sudo prior to typing sys ctl suda system ctl.
What do we want to do.
We want to restart the name of the service that we want to restart is a SSX.
I'm going to type clear at this stage.
Do not close this terminal window.
You can lock yourself out of your server and leave this terminal window exactly where it is and open
a new terminal window.
So I've opened a new terminal window, my command to log in to the server.
Was this my user at my servers IP address?
If I type the same command, I now get a message.
Permission denied, public key to log into my server.
Using this key authentication, I need to specify what is called the identity file.
That is, I need to specify the private key that must be used for this particular server.
So the command is H hyphen I, I'm specifying the identity file and the identity file is my private
key.
Dot is this access followed by my private key filename you 20 zero for leave a space.
Now you specify the user on the server.
In my case it's Andrew at my servers IP address.
Enter passphrase for the key.
This is not my service password.
This is the passphrase to unlock the private key.
And I have logged into my server using public private key authentication.
I'm going to type exit to close the second terminal window, switch back to the terminal window that
you kept open.
I'm also going to log out of my server by typing exit.